<h2>What is DEFI?</h2>
<p>DEFI or decentralized system is a new movement open to everybody and doesnt require trusting intermediaries like banks.</p><p></p><p>It relies heavily on cryptography, blockchain and smart contracts.</p><p></p><p>Most and really almost all DEFI projects are built on the Ethereum. It has a robust programming language Solidity that allows writing advanced smart contract that can contain all the necessary logic for DEFI apps.</p><p></p><p>Ethereum has the most developed eco system across all the smart contract platforms. </p><p></p><p>MakerDao was one of the first projects in the DEFI space. Founded in 2015 allowed users to lock in collateral and generate DAI which is a stable coin that follows the price of US dollar.</p><p></p><p>DAI can be used for saving on Oasis Makers platform. This recreates one of the pillars of the financial system: lending and borrowing.</p><p></p><p>Important feautres of DEFI are:</p><ol><li><p>Lending and Borrowing</p></li><li><p>Stable coins</p></li><li><p>Decentralized Exchanges(DEX)</p></li><li><p>Derivatives</p></li><li><p>Margin trading</p></li><li><p>Insurance</p></li></ol><p></p><p>COMPOUND is the biggest DEFI project in the lending category. Its an algorithmic, autonomous interest rate protocol. Users can supply assets and start making interest. Supplied assets can act as collateral for borrowing other assets.</p><p>Another popular project in this cateogry is AAVE.</p><p></p><p>With clever use of smart contracts and certain incentives we can create stable coin that is pegged to the US dollar without holding any dollars in the real world.</p><p>DAI is a good example of algorithmic stable coin.</p><p>There are multiple another non algoritmic stable coins: USDT, USDC. The problem with them is that they are centralized meaning there is a company behind them responsible for holding equivalent of the value of stable coins in US dollar or other assets.</p><p>Stable coins gained a lot of popularity and are used in DEFI applications like Compoud or Aave.</p><p></p><p>Decentralized Exchanges in opposite to centralized exchanges allow for exchanging crypto assets in a completely decentralized and permisionless way without giving up custody of the coin.</p><p>There are two types of DEXEs: </p><ul><li><p>Liquidity based - Uniswap, Kyber, Balancer and Bancor</p></li><li><p>Order book based - Loopring, Idex</p></li></ul><p></p><p>Derivatives are contracts that derive their value from a performance of an underlying asset.</p><p>Syntethix is decentralized platform that provides on chain exposure to different assets.</p><p></p><p>Margin Trading is the practice of using borrowed funds to increase the position in a certain asset.</p><p>The main apps are: DYDX, Fulcrum</p><p></p><p>Insurance provides certain guarantees of compensation in return for a payment of a premium.</p><p>It's protection in smart contract failures and protection of deposits.</p><p>Most popular apps: Nexus Mutual, Opyn</p><p></p><p>Oracle Services focus on delivering reliable data feeds from the outside world into the smart contract.</p><p>Most popular platform is Chainlink.</p><p></p><p>DEFI:</p><ul><li><p>permissionless no KYC - Know your customer</p></li><li><p>open source and encouraging open collaboration</p></li><li><p>censorship resistant</p></li><li><p>cheaper mostly network fees</p></li><li><p>built on the blockchain</p></li></ul><p></p><p>CEFI:</p><ul><li><p>permissioned, requires KYC</p></li><li><p>close, decisions made behind closed doors</p></li><li><p>can be censored</p></li><li><p>expensive, intermmediaries charging hefty fees</p></li><li><p>built on old foundations</p></li></ul><p></p><p>DEFI RISKS: </p><ul><li><p>bugs in smart contracts and protocol changes</p></li><li><p>check how much decentralized the DEFI project really is</p></li><li><p>what is the shutdown procedure when something goes wrong - does someone have an admin key that someone can use to shutdown the protocol? Or maybe there is some onchain governance that can make that decision</p></li><li><p>systemic risk - asset prices sharply losing their value which may result in a cascade of liquidations across multiple defi protocols</p></li><li><p>network fees and congestion - ethereum 2.0 and 2nd layer scaling solution can solve this problem</p></li><li><p>subtle features/changes to protocols may incentivise users to certain non obvious actions that can cascade across multiple protocols </p></li></ul>