<h2>What are Liquidity Pools?</h2>
<p>Liquidity Pools are in essence pools of tokens locked in a smart contract.</p><p>They are used to facilitate trading by providing liquidity and are extensively used by decentralized exchanges aka DEXES.</p><p></p><p>They become widely popularized by Uniswap.</p><p></p><p>In normal traditional centralized exchanges like coinbase and binance and even nasdaq and nyse work by using the order book model. In this model buyers and seller come together and place their orders. For trades to happen buyers and seller have to converge on the price.</p><p></p><p>Market makers are always willing to buy or sell an asset by doing that they provide liquidity so that the users can always trade and they dont have to wait for another counterparty to show up.</p><p></p><p>Without market makers an exchange becomes instantly illiquid and become unusable for users.</p><p></p><p>Ethereum is really not a viable option for Order book exchange where there is huge amount of orders and order cancelations. Because Ethereum can only do 12-15 transactions per second. On top of that every interaction with a smart contract costs a gas fee. Market makers would go bankrupt because of the gas fees.</p><p></p><p>There was a need to come up with some new and that is where Liquidity Pools come into play.</p><p></p><p>How Liquidity Pools work?</p><p>A single liquidity pool holds 2 tokens and each pool creates a new market for that particular pair of tokens.</p><p>When a new pool is created the first liquidity provider is the one that sets the initial price of the pool. He is insentivised to supply equal value of both tokens in the pool.</p><p>If the initial price of the tokens diverges from global market price it creates an instant arbitrage opportunity that can result in lost capital for the liquidity provider.</p><p></p><p>When a liquidity is supplied to a pool the liquidity provider receives special tokens in proportion to how much liquidity they supplied to the pool.</p><p></p><p>When a trade is facilitated by the pool a 0.3% fees is proportionally distributed among all the liquidity token holders.</p><p></p><p>If the liquidity provider wants to get their underlying liquidity back plus any acrude fees they must burn their liquidity provider tokens.</p><p></p><p>Each token swap that a liquidity pool facilitates results in a price adjustment according to a deterministic pricing algorithm. This mechanism is also called an Automated Market Maker.</p><p></p><p>Basic Liqudity pools like uniswap use constant product market maker algorithm that makes sure that the product of the quantities of the 2 supplied tokens always remains the same.</p><p></p><p>The pool can always provide liquidity no matter how large the trade is by using a magic algorithm. :)</p><p></p><p>Ratio of the tokens dictates the price.</p><p></p><p>Potential risks of Liquidity Pools are:</p><p>Standard ones: bugs, admin keys, systemic risks</p><p>New ones: Impermanent loss, Liqudity Pool Hacks.</p>