<h2>What is Uniswap</h2>
<p>The Uniswap Protocol is one of the most important protocols for decentralized exchange of tokens on Ethereum Blockchain.</p><p>It's deployed as a set of smart contracts and its:</p><ol><li><p>decentralized</p></li><li><p>permissionless</p></li><li><p>censorship resistant</p></li></ol><p></p><p>Uniswap is built on the concept of Liquidity Pools and Automated Market Makers.</p><p></p><p>Initial version of Uniswap was published to Ethereum mainnet was on Nov. 2nd 2018 by Haiden Adam.</p><p></p><p>At the time of building the first version of Uniswap protocol Ether Delta was pretty much the only Decentralized Exchange with some traction. It had poor UI and lacked liquidity.</p><p></p><p>In May 2020 Uniswap launched a Uniswap 2. The main feature was the addtion of ERC20 - ERC20 Liqudity Pool. Before V2 each Liquidity Pool had to consist of ETH as one of the currencies. So to trade from USDC to DAI, the user would have to trade their USDC for ETH and ETH for DAI which usually resulted in higher gas fees and more slippage. It was also better for Liquidity providers who didn't want to provide ETH and expose themselves to impermanent loss.</p><p></p><p>All V2 contracts were written in Solidity as opposed to V1 contracts were written in Vyper.</p><p></p><p>Sushiswap was aiming to directly competing with Uniswap by forking the project and adding a reward for Uniswap Liquidity Providers and eventually stealing Uniswap Liquidity into the Uniswap platform.</p><p></p><p>At around August 2020 Uniswap overcame Kraken and later even coinbase in the daily trading volume. Which is incredible because it had only 10 employees compared to Coinbase having a 1000 employees.</p><p></p><p>UNI token was announced later in 2020. Everyone who had used Uniswap even once before September 1 was eligable to claim 400 UNI tokens that were worth ~$1200. The UNI tokens were distributed to around 50 000 ethereum addresses making them the most widely distributed tokens in the space. On top of that the Liqudity Providers were also retrospectively rewarded with extra UNI tokens.</p><p></p><p>The Uniswap team wanted to further decentralize the protocol making it a publicly owned self sustainable financial infrastructure while protecting its indestructable autonomous qualities while working on Uniswap V3.</p><p></p><p>The token holders will be able to participate in Uniswap Governance by voting on different proposals or delegating their votes to a third party.</p>